# hshirleyuhu.github.io
Topic: 2018 Green Taxi Trips
Group: individual
Data source: NYC Open Data 2018 Green Taxi Trips
It is almost the seventh year since green cabs hit the roads in New York City, however, the number of green cab drivers almost reaches the lowest point ever. Compared to the pinnacle in mid-2015, green cab loses more than half of its drivers. 
In the summer of 2013, apple green cabs were introduced to New Yorkers as boro taxis. As a new taxi category, the boro taxi aims to strengthen the taxi service outside the central Manhattan area to all of the five boroughs in New York City. To better serve these areas, green cabs are only allowed to pick up passengers in Manhattan above East 96th Street and above West 110th Street. This is the only major difference between green cabs and traditional yellow cabs. Both cabs share the same fare rate.
Ever since 2011, cabs in New York City have begun the competition with App ride service, mainly with Uber back at that time. However, soon after the green taxi joined the market, the competition went fierce than ever. In the summer of 2014, Lyft, another App ride service joined the city. December of the same year, Uber Pool, a ride-sharing service arrived in the city and brought the winter to cab services. In 2015, Uber published a statistics report, “every month since launch, the number of uberPOOL trips has increased by an average of 28 percent.” 
Data Findings:
Based on data from 2018, nearly half of the passengers paid with cash, although credit cards still rank top on the payment methods. Fare, with no doubt, was another major factor that affects passenger’s choice. Green cab riders were more likely to take a ride when the per capita cost is under ten dollars. Only ten percent of the rides had a per capita cost over 40 dollars. 
Among the entire week, Saturday was the busiest day, closely followed by Friday, while Sunday was the quietest day of a week for green cab riders. Spring and harsh winter were the two seasons that green cabs were most needed in the city. March was the month with most trips while November was with the least, slightly less than summer months. The best day for green cabs last year was Feb. 2nd, a cold but mostly sunny Friday. While the worst day of that year was Jan. 4th, a Thursday, when the city was hit by a blizzard. It was also a day around the New Year holiday. Data shows that holidays were usually the slowest day for green cabs. Christmas and Thanksgiving were some of the days with the least green cab rides. 
Despite the convenience of the taxi dispatching service, green cab passengers remain the tradition of street hailing. Only two percent of riders from last year used dispatched cabs. 
